[React]: https://reactjs.org/
[Tachyons]: http://tachyons.io/

# Chuck

This repository contains two implementations for the same app: one is
powered by React and another has been written in [vanilla
JavaScript](#vanilla) (a naive implementation in **5KB** gzipped).

## React

[React] app, written in ES6, HTML, and vanilla CSS
([Tachyons]' naming convention).

The app fetches jokes and let you like/unlike them. The state survives
page reload. It also has a log in form with some pattern matching for
a password.

**[Demo](https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/aPosqjMGcTg?controls=0)**

### Dependencies

    production:
      react 16.8.6, react-dom 16.8.6

    developement:
      node 8+, react-scripts 2+

### Files

    ./src/index.js    the entry point
    ./src/__tests__   tests
    ./public          static HTML file

### Usage

Build this react app

    cd /tmp
    git clone https://github.com/romanzolotarev/chuck
    cd chuck
    npm install
    npm start


## Vanilla

This is a naive implementation for `<App />` and `<Login />` components
(no virtutal DOM, no patching, just run swapNodes() to replace whole DOM
node).

### Known issues

- `<App />` and `<Login />` mounted into two different `<div />s`.
- Every `dispatcher(action)` call leads to re-render of its `<div />`.
- For `<Login />` that means `<input />` looses its focus onChange.

### Dependencies

    production:
      ECMAScript 2017 (ECMA-262)

    developement:
      node 8+

### Files

    ./vanilla/index.html    the entry point

    Shared with the React app:
      ./src/index.css      CSS
      ./src/reducer.js     reducer for <App />
      ./src/validator.js   password validator for <Login />

### Usage

Run an HTTP server and open <http://localhost:1337> in a browser:

    cd /tmp
    git clone https://github.com/romanzolotarev/chuck
    cd chuck
    npm run vanilla


## Uninstall

    cd /tmp
    rm -rf chuck

## DIY

This app has been written with almost zero boilerplates. If you want to
try it yourself to write it from scratch create new React app and
checkout my initial commit.


	echo '{
	  "name": "chuck",
	  "version": "0.1.0",
	  "private": true,
	  "dependencies": {
	    "react": "^16.8.6",
	    "react-dom": "^16.8.6",
	    "react-scripts": "2.1.8"
	  },
	  "scripts": {
	    "start": "react-scripts start",
	    "build": "react-scripts build",
	    "test": "react-scripts test",
	    "eject": "react-scripts eject"
	  },
	  "eslintConfig": { "extends": "react-app" },
	  "browserslist": [ ">0.2%", "not dead", "not ie <= 11", "not op_mini all" ]
	}' > package.json # generated by create-react-ap)
	npm install
	npm audit fix
	mkdir -p public src
	echo '<div id="root" />' > public/index.html
	echo "console.log('ok')" > src/index.js
	npm start

## License

    Copyright 2019 Roman Zolotarev <hi@romanzolotarev.com>

    Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
    purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
    copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
    WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
    ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
    WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
    ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
    OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
